Kings College of Engineering (KCE)
Power Electronics and Drives
About Department
Power Electronics deals with conversion and control of electrical power. Power Electronics is often defined as a hybrid technology that involves the disciplines of power and electronics. The field of Power Electronics and Drives is changing very rapidly due to intensive research taking place in the areas of power semiconductor devices and digital signal processing. Hence it is the need of the day to keep abreast of this field and to cater the requirements of industry in a better way. Developments of advanced topologies of electrical machines have also widened the scope of power electronic controllers.
The Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering offers a two year masters program in Power Electronics and Drives. The program has an increasing exposure towards growing industrial needs. This program includes a the detailed study of power electronic devices and its applications for AC drives and DC drives, power system voltage stability and its control and the trends in the renewable energy systems.
Vision & Mission
Vision
To infuse technical competencies of Electrical and Electronics Engineering and provide research ambience with value
Mission
Establishing learning atmosphere and practicing advanced Electrical and Electronics Engineering systems through effective teaching learning methodologies and ethical values.
PEOs and POs
View
EEE DEPT PEOs and POs
Scope & Job Oppourtunities
Earning an engineering degree in Electrical & Electronics Engineering will open the avenues to many opportunities. In today’s high-tech world, this engineering degree is a great foundation for careers in traditional engineering fields and in management, sales, government, medicine, research, teaching, and more. Electrical engineers generally design, develop, test, and supervise the manufacture of electrical equipment. Some of the equipment include electric motors, machinery controls, lighting, and wiring in buildings; radar and navigation systems; power-generation, controlling and transmission devices used by electric utilities.
Electrical engineering focuses on the generation and supply of power, whereas electronics engineering is the application of electricity to control systems or signal processing. Electrical & Electronics engineers specialize in areas such as power systems engineering or electrical equipment manufacturing, signal processing and control systems.
Value Added Course
Laboratories
Power Electronics and Drives lab
The Department has a Power Electronics Laboratory equipped well with drive-control kits based on SCRs, IGBTs, MOSFETs, TRIAC, DIAC, UJT etc., and various configurations such as converters, inverters and chopper. The Department also has a well set computer lab that has a server with 35 nodes of ACER, core 2 duo processor, with 500 GB SATA hard disk and 2GB DDR2 RAM. The lab is provided with the following software packages.
ORCAD Capture with PSPICE 10.5
PSPICE 9.0
PSIM 6.0
AU Power Lab
MATLAB 7.2
Faculty Details
Department of Electrical and Electronics Engineering
HEAD OF THE DEPARTMENT
Name: Mr. R. SUNDARAMOORTHI
Qualification: B.E., M.E., (Ph.D).,
Department: Electrical and Electronics Engineering
The department currently has a dedicated team of faculty members with a minimum of 4 years of experience,
supported by well-qualified staff with diverse specializations. We take pride in our faculty, who have
published their research in journals indexed by SCI, Google Scholar, Scopus, Web of Science, and more. Our
staff members are actively involved in research activities, and their experience inspires students to
develop and enhance their technical knowledge across various fields.
View Profile
List of Faculty:
S. No.
Name of the Faculty
Highest Degree
Area of Specialization
Present Designation
Dr. S. Sivakumar
M. Tech., Ph.D
Power System and Project Management
Professor
Dr. A. Albert Martin Ruban
M.E., Ph.D
Renewable Energy, Smart Grid and Wireless Network
Professor
Mr. R. Sundaramoorthi
M.E., (Ph.D)
Power Electronics, Electrical Drives and Hybrid Energy Technology
Assistant Professor
Dr. P. Narasimman
M.E., Ph.D
Power Electronics and Drives, Control Systems, Electromagnetic Compatibility
Associate Professor
Mr. J. Arokiaraj
M.E., (Ph.D)
Electrical Machines, Smart Grid, Power Electronics and Power Quality
Assistant Professor
Mr. S. R. Karthikeyan
M.E., (Ph.D)
Power Electronics and Drives, FACTS Devices, Power Quality, Electrical Traction
Assistant Professor
Mrs. P. Thirumagal
M.Tech.
Communication System and Electromagnetic Field
Assistant Professor
Dr. G. Suganya
M.Tech., Ph.D
Power System, High Voltage Engineering and Machine Learning
Assistant Professor
Dr. L. Maheswari
M.E., Ph.D
Control System, Power Electronics and Electromagnetic Field
Assistant Professor
Mrs. N. Mangaleswari
M.E., (Ph.D)
Power Electronics and Drives, Control System and Special Electrical Machines
Assistant Professor
Mr. G. Jayachandran
M.E.
Power Electronics and Drives and Electrical Machines
Assistant Professor
List of Supporting Staff:
S. No.
Name
Designation
Mr. R. Alex
Lab Technician
Mr. K. Regubalan
Lab Technician
Mrs. R. Rajasri
Attender
Achievements
S.No
DATE
EVENT DETAILS
VENUE
PARTICIPANTS
Title of the paper/Event
REMARKS
1.10.2019
State level technical symposium
Chendhuran college of engineering and technology
M. Rasika
SANSCINCO
FIRST PRIZE “PAPER PRESENTATION EVENT”
R. Pavithra
19.09.2019
A National level Technical Symposium
PRIST University
M. Rasika
Vidyut 2k19
SECOND PRIZE ”PAPER PRESENTATION EVENT”
R. Pavithra
21.08.2019
National seminar
PRIST University
M. Kaviya
Recent Trends in Eco Friendly Power Plant and its Control Techniques
Participation
K. Bavana
M. Mano
S. Hariharan
K. Prabhakaran
22.08.2019
One day National Level Workshop
K.S.K College of Engineering And Technology
R. Priyadharshini
Real Time DSP Applications
Participation
N. Ishwarya
24.08.2019
One day Workshop
Pantech ProEd
R. Pavithra
Power Electronics and Renewable Energy using Matlab
Participation
M. Rasika
R. Sakthisridevi
Events
S.Sudhersun, R.Venkatesh, of final year ece received iii rd prize with
10,000 cash award in start up tn –olimayan 2.0 on 31-03-2023
conducted by knowledment institute of technology,salem
S.Sudhersun, R.Venkatesh, D.Santhosh of final year ECE received best market fit and innovative project
award on 19.04.2023 conducted by anna university, chennai
Clubs and Activities
Contributing novel ideas and innovations that empower advancements in engineering profession, Project club was inaugurated on 23.01.2020 for the EEE students.
OBJECTIVE:
To allow graduates to make judgment-based decisions with confidence.
To identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems through innovative ideas.
To design and undertake or conduct an independent research.
To develop students' knowledge for solving technical problems through structured project research study that produces competent and sound engineering skills.
OFFICE BEARERS:
Chief
Dr. A. Albert Martin Ruban
HOD/EEE
Staff Coordinators
Mr. J. Arokiaraj
AP/EEE
Mr. S. R. Karthikeyan
AP/EEE
Student Coordinators
E. Ganesan
III-EEE
S. Jagadeshwaran
II-EEE
EVENTS ORGANIZED:
Academic Year 2019–20 Odd Semester
NAME OF THE EVENT
DATE
Project Club Inauguration
23.01.2020
Project Expo
26.03.2020
Regulation
View
2013
Syllabus
View
2021
View
2017
Facebook
Instagram
Youtube
IEEE Sponsored International Conference on April 9th and 10th.
Click here