Kings College of Engineering (KCE)
VLSI Design
About Department
The post graduate program in VLSI Design with an intake of 18 was started in the year 2008. Very Large Scale Integrated (VLSI) Circuits is a thrust area in modern technological world that has revolutionized the developments in Space technology, Defense, Communication, Instrumentation, Medical Electronics, Computing, Internet, and Modern automations in various industries. VLSI has attained maturity over last few decades during which the technology has shrunk from 10 micrometer to few nanometers by faithfully obeying Moore’s Law which states that “the technology shrinks to 1/4th the area in every 18 months”. Thus the designer needs to put four times the circuitry in the same area of chip built 18 months back. This has posed challenges to the designers throughout the world and hence created into a systematic area of study.
Vision & Mission
Vision
To produce technically competent, socially responsible Electronics and Communication Engineers with research insight.
Mission
Establishing learning environment and practicing advanced Electronics and Communication Engineering through effective teaching learning methodologies with ethical prospective.
PEOs and POs
View
VLSI DEPT PEOs and POs
Scope & Job Oppourtunities
Having a look at the career prospects, there is bound to be a huge demand for competent engineers in electronic industry to cope the demand in technology. The engineers are involved in sustaining cutting edge technology to stay ahead in competition.
An electronic engineer can find a job in Consumer electronics manufacturing organization, Telecommunication & IT industries, Health care equipment manufacturing, Mobile communication (2G,3G,4G,5G), Internet technologies, Power Electronics, and other industries like steel, petroleum and chemical industry, directing control and testing production process. They may also work with computers and electronic equipment in the medical, manufacturing, industrial control, telecommunications, aeronautical and military fields.
Value Added Course
Laboratories
The VLSI laboratory is well equipped with the state-of-the-art industry standard EDA tools and hardware resources such as Xilinx 9.2i, Xilinx 14.3, Mentor Graphics HEP1, Spartan-3, Spartan-6, Altera Cyclone-2 and Virtex-5 FPGA. The objective of VLSI laboratory is to expose the UG, PG and Research Scholars to understand the concepts of Analogue and Digital IC Design and manufacturing process using the prescribed tools. The VLSI laboratory provides hands-on experience to students in the field of analog and digital circuit IC design to promote the research culture among the young budding Engineers.
Electronic Circuits Lab
Digital Electronics Lab
Microprocessors & Microcontrollers Lab
Linear Integrated Circuits Lab
Communication Lab
Digital Signal Processing Lab
Networks Lab
Optical & Microwave Lab
VLSI Lab
Embedded Lab
Faculty Details
Achievements
Students' Achievements
Academic Year 2019-20 (ODD)
Student Name(s)
Programme Title
Organizer
Date
A. Siva Saranya
R. Abarna
R. Abinaya Karthika
K. Agalya
S. Agalya
S. Dhanaharshini
M. Harini
M. Sripriya
“Bio Signal Processing, Biomaterials and Instrumentations of Medical Devices for Healthcare Applications”
University College Of Engineering, BIT Campus, Trichy
07.08.2019 – 08.08.2019
S. Dhanaharshini
R. Dhivyadharshini
C. Ranjitha
Real Time Aspects with Embedded System
K. S. K. College Of Engineering and Technology, Darasuram
24.09.2019
K. Priyadharshini
V. K. Vithyasri
TECHNOVANZA 2K
University College Of Engineering, Ariyalur
27.09.2019
Acedemic Year 2018-19 (Odd)
Student Name(s)
Programme Title
Organizer
Date
M. Ezhilarasi
K. Rajalakshmi
B. Melvin Charles
Poet Competition
Unavuporul Vazhangal Mattrum Nugaror, Padhukapputhurai
06.07.2018
R. Shanmugapriya
R. Vinitha
K. Priyadharshini
U. K. Vithyasri
C. Subashini
T. Swetha
Paper Presentation
ISTE Student Chapter
11.08.2018
V. Sasirekha
Paper Presentation
Kongunadu College of Engineering, Namakkal
18.08.2018
S. Dhanasekaran
E. Ilankhatir
K. Priyadharshini
U. K. Vithyasri
S. Hemamalini
M. Veeralakshmi
A. Eswari
U. Udhayarani
M. Ezhilarasi
Y. Sivanantham
R. Vishwanath
M. A. Yuvan Kishore
K. Meera
K. Akalya
V. Sasirekha
Intra Department Paper Presentation
Kings College of Engineering
10.09.2018
J. Deepika
R. Hemalatha
R. Rajeswari
K. Ramya
S. Sheeba
S. Ashiga
M. Bhavadharini
S. Durga
P. Elakiya
S. Haritha
J. S. Gayathiri
K. Gayathiri
M. Janakiraman
S. Kavibala
K. Mahalakshmi
P. Malathi
B. Monisha Reeta
V. Nandhini
G. Nandhini
C. Narendran
N. Pavithra
S. Pavithra
K. Priyanka
LabVIEW Graphical Development – Hands-on Training
Kings College of Engineering
12.09.2018
J. Pragadeeswari
S. Rangeela Subraja
S. Santhiya
R. Shanmuga Priya
S. Shenbagaveni
C. Subhasini
T. Swetha
J. Tamilselvan
R. Vinitha
S. Vimala
K. Akalya
T. Archana
S. Dhanasekaran
S. Dhanaharshini
R. Dhivyadharshini
K. Priyadharshini
C. Ranjitha
D. Ranjitha
M. Rasika
M. Sri Priya
LabVIEW Graphical Development – Hands-on Training
Kings College of Engineering
12.09.2018
M. Ajay
M. Janaki Raman
C. Narendran
S. Hemamalini
M. Veeralakshmi
S. Saran Kumar
S. Shenbagaveni
T. Swetha
S. Hemamalini
Hands-on Training in Embedded System using ARM Cortex Series Controllers
K.S.K. College of Engineering, Kumbakonam
26.09.2018 – 27.09.2018
Acedemic Year 2018-19 (Even)
Student Name(s)
Programme Title
Organizer
Date
J. Dhivyadarshini, K. Divya, S. Durga, S. Haritha, J. Lavanya, G. Shrisuruthi, M. Krithica
Addressing Techniques and Device in Wireless Networks
K.S.K College of Engineering and Technology, Darasuram
28-01-2019
K. Divya, S. Durga, P. Elakiya, S. Haritha, G. Janani, M. Krithica
Science and Technology Capacity Building for Industrial Needs
Arasu Engineering College, Kumbakonam
30-01-2019 to 01-02-2019
S. Manisha, S. Lanjer Nisha, R. Priyatharcini, J. S. Gayathri, S. Kavibala, P. Malathi, S. Ashiga, G. Nandini, R. Mahalakshmi Bai, A. Monisha, J. Pragadeeswari, R. Punitha, P. Pavithra, P. Anbuselvi
Processing of Bio Signals using MATLAB
Karpagam Academy of Higher Education, Coimbatore
01-02-2019
G. Anitha, P. S. Kanishka Harini, B. Arthika, M. Dhanalakshmi, R. Ezhilarasi, K. Kavi Bharathi, G. Maheswari, G. Srivithya, S. Shanmuga Priya, S. Santhiya, S. Vainiya, U. Sara Mariyam, K. Priyanka, S. Preethi, C. Pavithra, S. Pavithra, P. Vinitha, S. Vimala, M. Nithya, S. Roslin Mary
Simulation and Design of PCB using Proteus
K. Ramakrishnan College of Technology, Trichy
02-02-2019
K. Rasika, K. Priyanka, G. Preethi, S. Shenbagaveni, B. Uthrasri, R. Vinitha, C. S. Niranjani
Embedded Systems
V.S.B Engineering College, Karur
02-02-2019
S. Durga, K. Nathiya, C. Narendran, P. Iyyappan, M. Janakiraman, M. Ajay, M. Bavadharini, K. Jaishree, L. Mowli, K. Gayathri, K. Maha Lakshmi, B. Monisha Reeta, V. Nandhini, D. Nivethitha, R. Vasanthi, T. Sivabharathi, S. Rangeela Subraja, J. Tamilselvan, K. Karthikeyan, S. Saran Kumar, M. Ratheeswaran, K. Subash, J. Elumalai, S. Surriya, B. Oviya, R. Shanmugapriya, C. Subashini, T. Swetha, M. Padmadharani, B. Pavithra, C. Suganya, S. Arundhavaselvan, P. Priya
Raspberry Pi
M. Kumarasamy College of Engineering, Karur
08-02-2019
K. Jaishree, L. Mowli
Science Festival
Science City, Chennai
19-02-2019 to 22-02-2019
Events
Clubs and Activities
The prime aim of this club is not only to provide a strong emphasis in Practical Electronics but also to provide fun in learning and to help students understand the seemingly incomprehensible electronic gadgets in the world today. It also assists students in developing their own devices in an innovative way.
Objectives:
To bring the students out of their syllabi-bound shells and expose them pragmatically to the field.
To explain the concepts of electronics, circuit design, and hardware analysis and help them gain knowledge.
To provide a platform for students to work on their innovative ideas.
To provide resources and the technical know-how to realize and shape their projects.
To expose students to the latest technological advancements in electronics.
To organize discussions on emerging trends in electronics.
Office Bearers:
Role
Name
Designation
Chief Co-ordinator
Mrs. N. Mangaiyarkarasi
HOD / ECE
Staff Co-ordinator
Mr. W. Newton David Raj
AP / ECE
Student Co-ordinator
Ms. K. Rajalakshmi
III – ECE
Asst. Co-ordinator
Mr. S. Thirumurugan
II – ECE
Regulation
View
2013
Syllabus
View
2021
View
2017
Facebook
Instagram
Youtube
IEEE Sponsored International Conference on April 9th and 10th.
Click here